Let's talk about the three types of communication
and how you can use them most effectively.
The first type of communication is verbal.
Verbal messages are spoken out loud and heard by others.
Examples include phone calls and in-person conversations.
With verbal communication, you'll want to:
One, speak slowly and confidently.
Remember, this is your message,
make sure it's heard.
Two, stay on topic.
By staying on track,
you'll help to make sure your listeners leave
with the right take-away.
And, three, pay attention to the tone of your voice.
Your meaning will change depending
on your volume, inflection and sound.
Do your best to make sure your tone matches your message.
The second type of communication is nonverbal.
Nonverbal messages are wordless and seen by others.
Examples include your body language
and facial expressions.
With nonverbal communication,
you'll wanna be aware of your nonverbal cues.
It can be easy to forget about our nonverbal cues.
Make sure your facial expressions
and body language align with your intentions.
That way, you're less likely to give the wrong impression.
You'll also wanna pair your gestures with words.
That will help prevent ambiguity
and keep your message extra clear.
Finally, practice open, friendly body language.
That will help to show attentiveness,
interest and confidence.
The third type of communication is written.
Written messages are text-base and read by others.
Examples include emails and letters.
With written communication,
you'll want to plan before you write.
That will help keep your writing structured
and easy to follow.
You also will wanna keep your message clear and concise.
Your receiver should be able to quickly understand
why you're sending this message.
Finally, make sure you use proper grammar,
spelling and punctuation.
If you don't proofread your work,
you could ruin the credibility of your written message.
Follow these tips for effective verbal,
nonverbal and written communication
and it's more likely your messages
will be heard, seen and read.